> 113THCONGRESS
>    1STSESSION S.ll
>   To amend title 18, United States Code, to ensure greater protections for
>                       trade secrets.
>     IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
>                   llllllllll
>  llllllllll introduced the following bill; which was read twice
>        and referred to the Committee on llllllllll
>                    A BILL
>   To amend title 18, United States Code, to ensure greater
>               protections for trade secrets.
     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as theSEC. 2. TRADE SECRET THEFT ENFORCEMENT.
     (a) N GENERAL .—Chapter 90 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
         (1) in section 1831(a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting after ‘‘agent,’’ the following: ‘‘or intending or knowing that the offense is committed at the request, under the direction, or on behalf of any foreign government, foreign instrumentality, or foreign agent,’’;
          (2) in section 1835—
               (A) by striking ‘‘In any prosecution’’ and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(a) N GENERAL .—In any prosecution’’; and
               (B) by adding at the end the following:
     ‘‘(b) INTERESTED OWNERS .—The court shall allow an owner of a trade secret at issue in a prosecution under this chapter to file a submission under seal that describes the interest of the owner in a trade secret remaining confidential, and shall consider such submission before issuing an order under subsection (a). The record for an interlocutory appeal brought by the Government shall include the submission made under seal to the court by the owner of the trade secret, and may be supplemented on appeal by a further submission under seal by the owner of the trade secret. No submission under seal made pursuant to this subsection may be entered into evidence in a prosecution.’’;
          (3) in section 1837—
               (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end;
               (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
               (C) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(3) an act in furtherance of the offense was committed through means or facilities located in the United States and the offense resulted in an injury to an individual or entity located in the United States.’’; and
          (4) in section 1839(1)—
               (A) in paragraph (1)—
                    (i) by inserting ‘‘subsidized,’’ after ‘‘sponsored,’’; and
                    (ii) by inserting ‘‘or foreign agent’’ after ‘‘government’’;
               (B) in paragraph (3)—
                    (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting ‘‘strategies, negotiating positions,’’ after ‘‘plans,’’; and
                    (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end;
               (C) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
               (D) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(5) the term ‘benefit any foreign government, foreign instrumentality, or foreign agent’ shall include the conveyance of any trade secret to any foreign government, foreign instrumentality, or foreign agent.’’.
     (b) RICO PREDICATE OFFENSES .—Section 1961(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting ‘‘sections 1831 and 1832 (relating to economic espionage and theft of trade secrets),’’ before ‘‘section 1951’’.
