> 115TH CONGRESS
>    1ST SESSION S.ll
>  To provide protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide
>              certain medical services in a secondary State.
>      IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
>                     llllllllll
> Mr. HUNE (for himself, MLOBUCHAR, Mr.ORTMAN, Mr. OOZMAN, Mr.
>     GRASSLE, Mr. OTTON, Mr. WICKE, Mr. OUNDS, Ms. MURKOWSK,
>     and Mrs.APIT) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and
>     referred to the Committee on llllllllll
>                      A BILL
> To provide protections for certain sports medicine professionals who provide certain medical services in a secondary State.
     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Sports Medicine Licensure Clarity Act of 2017’’.
 SEC. 2. PROTECTIONS FOR COVERED SPORTS MEDICINE PROFESSIONALS.
     (a) IN GENERAL .—In the case of a covered sports medicine professional who has in effect medical professional liability insurance coverage and provides in a secondary State covered medical services that are within the scope of practice of such professional in the primary State to an athlete or an athletic team (or a staff member of such an athlete or athletic team) pursuant to an agreement described in subsection (b)(4) with respect to such athlete or athletic team—
          (1) such medical professional liability insurance coverage shall cover (subject to any related premium adjustments) such professional with respect to such covered medical services provided by the professional in the secondary State to such an individual or team as if such services were provided by such professional in the primary State to such an individual or team; and
          (2) to the extent such professional is licensed under the requirements of the primary State to provide such services to such an individual or team, the professional shall be treated as satisfying any licensure requirements of the secondary State to provide such services to such an individual or team.
      (b) DEFINITIONS .—In this Act, the following definitions apply:
          (1) ATHLETE .—The term ‘‘athlete’’ means—
               (A) an individual participating in a sporting event or activity for which the individual may be paid;
               (B) an individual participating in a sporting event or activity sponsored or sanctioned by a national governing body; or
               (C) an individual for whom a high school or institution of higher education provides a covered sports medicine professional.
          (2) ATHLETIC TEAM .—The term ‘‘athletic team’’ means a sports team—
               (A) composed of individuals who are paid to participate on the team;
               (B) composed of individuals who are participating in a sporting event or activity sponsored or sanctioned by a national governing body; or
               (C) for which a high school or an institution of higher education provides a covered sports medicine professional.
          (3) COVERED MEDICAL SERVICES .—The term ‘‘covered medical services’’ means general medical care, emergency medical care, athletic training, or physical therapy services. Such term does not include care provided by a covered sports medicine professional—
               (A) at a health care facility; or
               (B) while a health care provider licensed to practice in the secondary State is transporting the injured individual to a health care facility.
          (4) COVERED SPORTS MEDICINE PROFESSIONAL .—The term ‘‘covered sports medicine professional’’ means a physician, athletic trainer, or other health care professional who—
               (A) is licensed to practice in the primary State;
               (B) provides covered medical services, pursuant to a written agreement with an athlete, an athletic team, a national governing body, a high school, or an institution of higher education; and
               (C) prior to providing the covered medical services described in subparagraph (B), has disclosed the nature and extent of such services to the entity that provides the professional with liability insurance in the primary State.
          (5) HEALTH CARE FACILITY .—The term ‘‘health care facility’’ means a facility in which medical care, diagnosis, or treatment is provided on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Such term does not include facilities at an arena, stadium, or practice facility, or temporary facilities existing for events where athletes or athletic teams may compete.
          (6) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION .—The term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the High-er Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
          (7) NATIONAL GOVERNING BODY .—The term ‘‘national governing body’’ has the meaning given such term in section 220501 of title 36, United States Code.
          (8) PRIMARY STATE .—The term ‘‘primary State’’ means, with respect to a covered sports medicine professional, the State in which—
               (A) the covered sports medicine professional is licensed to practice; and
               (B) the majority of the covered sports medicine professional’s practice is underwritten for medical professional liability insurance coverage.
          (9) SECONDARY STATE .—The term ‘‘secondary State’’ means, with respect to a covered sports medicine professional, any State that is not the primary State.
          (10) STATE .—The term ‘‘State’’ means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States.
