> 113THCONGRESS
>    2D SESSION S.ll
> To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish a simplified income-driven repayment plan, and for other purposes.
>     IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
>  llllllllll introduced the following bill; which was read twice
>        and referred to the Committee on llllllllll
>                    A BILL
> To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to establish
>     a simplified income-driven repayment plan, and for other
>     purposes.
     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the ø‘‘llllllllll Act of 2014’’¿.
 SEC. 2. SIMPLIFIED INCOME-DRIVEN REPAYMENT PLAN. Part G of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 ‘‘SEC. 493E. SIMPLIFIED INCOME-DRIVEN REPAYMENT PLAN.
     ‘‘(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
          ‘‘(1) COVERED FEDERAL DIRECT LOAN .—The term ‘covered Federal Direct Loan’ means a Federal Direct Stafford Loan, a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan (other than a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan whose proceeds were used to discharge the liability of a Federal Direct PLUS loan made on behalf of a dependent student or a loan under section 428B made on behalf of a dependent student), or a Federal Direct PLUS Loan (other than a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a dependent student) made under part D.
          ‘‘(2) DISCRETIONARY INCOME .—The term ‘discretionary income’ means the amount by which a borrower’s annual adjusted gross income exceeds 150 percent of the poverty line applicable to the borrower’s family size.
          ‘‘(3) DISCRETIONARY INCOME BEND POINT .— The term ‘discretionary income bend point’ means $25,000, adjusted annually for inflation as determined by the Consumer Price Index (as such term is defined in section 478(f)) for the previous calendar year.
          ‘‘(4) NCOME-DRIVEN CALCULATION .—
              ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘income-driven calculation’, when used with respect to a borrower, means the annual amount due on the total amount of covered Federal Direct Loans, which annual amount is equivalent to—
                   ‘‘(i) 10 percent of the borrower’s discretionary income that is less than the discretionary income bend point, plus
                   ‘‘(ii) 15 percent of the borrower’s discretionary income that is equal to or greater than the discretionary income bend point
              ‘‘(B) ANNUAL CALCULATION .—The calculation under subparagraph (A) shall be determined on an annual basis for the duration of the repayment period described in subsection
          (b).
          ‘‘(5) NEW BORROWER .—The term ‘new borrower’ means a borrower who—
              ‘‘(A) as of July 1, 2015, has no outstanding balance on a student loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B or D; or
              ‘‘(B) has no outstanding balance on a student loan made, insured, or guaranteed under part B or D on the date the borrower receives a loan made under part D on or after July 1, 2015.
     ‘‘(b) SIMPLIFIED NCOME-DRIVEN REPAYMENT PLAN AUTHORIZED .—
          ‘‘(1) N GENERAL .—The Secretary shall carry out a simplified income-driven repayment program for new borrowers that meets the following requirements:
              ‘‘(A) A new borrower of any covered Federal Direct Loan may elect to have the borrower’s aggregate monthly payment for all such loans equal to the income-driven calculation, divided by 12.
              ‘‘(B) The holder of such a loan shall apply the borrower’s monthly payment under this subsection first toward interest due on the loan, next toward any fees due on the loan, and then toward the principal of the loan.
              ‘‘(C) Any interest due and not paid under subparagraph (B)—
                   ‘‘(i) shall, on Federal Direct Stafford Loans, be paid by the Secretary for a period of not more than 3 years after the date of the borrower’s election under subparagraph (A), except that such period shall not include any period during which the borrower is in deferment due to an economic hardship described in section 435(o); and
                   ‘‘(ii) be capitalized—
                        ‘‘(I) in the case of a Federal Direct Stafford Loan, subject to clause
                   (i), at the time the borrower’s monthly payment calculation under subparagraph (A) exceeds the monthly payment calculation under the standard repayment plan, based on a 10-year repayment period, when the borrower first made the election under subparagraph (A); and
                        ‘‘(II) in the case of a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, at the time the borrower’s monthly payment calculation under subparagraph
                   (A) exceeds the monthly payment calculation under the standard repayment plan, based on a 10-year repayment period, when the borrower first made the election under subparagraph
                   (A).
               ‘‘(D) Any principal due and not paid under subparagraph (B) shall be deferred.
               ‘‘(E) The amount of time a new borrower shall make monthly payments under subparagraph (A) may exceed 10 years.
               ‘‘(F) The Secretary shall cancel the outstanding balance of principal and interest due for a new borrower whose balance of principal of covered Federal Direct Loans did not exceed $57,500 on the date the borrower’s repayment period began, if the borrower—
                   ‘‘(i) at any time, elected to participate under subparagraph (A); and
                   ‘‘(ii) for 20 years—
                        ‘‘(I) made monthly payments pursuant to subparagraph (A); or
                        ‘‘(II) was in deferment due to an economic hardship described in section 435(o).
               ‘‘(G) The Secretary shall cancel the outstanding balance of principal and interest due for a new borrower whose balance of principal of covered Federal Direct Loans exceeded $57,500 on the date the borrower’s repayment period began, if the borrower—
                   ‘‘(i) at any time, elected to participate under subparagraph (A); and
                   ‘‘(ii) for 25 years—
                        ‘‘(I) made monthly payments pursuant to subparagraph (A); or
                        ‘‘(II) was in deferment due to an economic hardship described in section 435(o).
          ‘‘(2) MONTHLY PAYMENTS .—Only monthly payments made pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) shall be considered eligible payments toward the forgiveness of outstanding loan principal and interest under subparagraphs (F) and (G) of paragraph (1).
     ‘‘(c) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS .—The Secretary shall establish procedures for annually determining a borrower’s eligibility for the simplified income-driven repayment plan under this section, including—
          ‘‘(1) verification of a borrower’s annual adjusted gross income;
          ‘‘(2) the annual amount due on the total amount of covered Federal Direct Loans; and
          ‘‘(3) such other procedures as are necessary to effectively implement the simplified income-driven repayment plan under this section.
     ‘‘(d) SPECIAL RULE FOR MARRIED BORROWERS F IING SEPARATELY .—In the case of a married borrower who files a separate Federal income tax return, the Secretary shall calculate the borrower’s income-driven calculation on the basis of the borrower’s total amount due on covered Federal Direct Loans and the married couple’s combined adjusted gross income. In the case of a married couple in which both individuals repay their loans under this section, the Secretary shall calculate each borrower’s income-driven calculation on the basis of each borrower’s total amount due on covered Federal Direct Loans and the married couple’s combined adjusted gross income divided by 2.’’.
 SEC. 3. STREAMLINING REPAYMENT PLANS FOR NEW BORROWERS. Section 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e) is amended—
          (1) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
     ‘‘(d) REPAYMENT PLANS .—
          ‘‘(1) DESIGN AND SELECTION FOR BORROWERS BEFORE JULY 1 , 201.—With respect to a borrower of a loan made under this part before July 1, 2015, and consistent with criteria established by the Secretary, the Secretary shall offer such borrower a variety of plans for repayment of such loan, including principal and interest on the loan. The borrower shall be entitled to accelerate, without penalty, repayment on the borrower’s loans under this part. The borrower may choose—
               ‘‘(A) a standard repayment plan, consistent with subsection (a)(1) of this section and with section 428(b)(9)(A)(i);
               ‘‘(B) a graduated repayment plan, consistent with section 428(b)(9)(A)(ii);
               ‘‘(C) an extended repayment plan, consistent with section 428(b)(9)(A)(iv), except that the borrower shall annually repay a minimum amount determined by the Secretary in accordance with section 428(b)(1)(L);
               ‘‘(D) an income contingent repayment plan, with varying annual repayment amounts based on the income of the borrower, paid over an extended period of time prescribed by the Secretary, not to exceed 25 years, except that the plan described in this subparagraph shall not be available to the borrower of a Federal Direct PLUS loan made on behalf of a dependent student; and
               ‘‘(E) an income-based repayment plan that enables borrowers who have a partial financial hardship to make a lower monthly payment in accordance with section 493C, except that the plan described in this subparagraph shall not be available to the borrower of a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a dependent student or a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan, if the proceeds of such loan were used to discharge the liability on such Federal Direct PLUS Loan or a loan under section 428B made on behalf of a dependent student.
          ‘‘(2) DESIGN AND SELECTION FOR NEW BORROWERS ON OR AFTER JULY 1 ,2015.—The Secretary shall offer a borrower of a loan made under this part on or after July 1, 2015, the following plans for repayment of such loan, including principal and interest on the loan. The borrower shall be entitled to accelerate, without penalty, repayment on the borrower’s loans under this part. The borrower may choose—
               ‘‘(A) a standard repayment plan, consistent with subsection (a)(1) of this section and with section 428(b)(9)(A)(i); or
               ‘‘(B) a simplified income-driven repayment plan, consistent with section 493E, except the plan described in this subparagraph shall not be available to a borrower of a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a dependent student, a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan, if the proceeds of such loan were used to discharge the liability on such Federal Direct PLUS Loan or a loan under section 428B made on behalf of a dependent student.
          ‘‘(3) SELECTION BY SECRETARY .—If a borrower of a loan made under this part does not select a repayment plan described in paragraph (1) or (2), the Secretary may provide the borrower with a repayment plan described in subparagraph (A), (B), or
      (C) of paragraph (1) for borrowers before July 1, 2015, or a repayment plan described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (2) for new borrowers on or after July 1, 2015.
          ‘‘(4) CHANGES IN SELECTIONS .—The borrower of a loan made under this part may change the borrower’s selection of a repayment plan under paragraph (1) or (2), or the Secretary’s selection of a plan for the borrower under paragraph (3), as the case may be, under such terms and conditions as may be established by the Secretary.
          ‘‘(5) ALTERNATIVE REPAYMENT PLANS .—The Secretary may provide, on a case by case basis, an alternative repayment plan to a borrower of a loan made under this part on or after July 1, 2015, who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the terms and conditions of the repayment plans available under paragraph (2) are not adequate to accommodate the borrower’s exceptional circumstances. Upon request, the Secretary shall make available for such borrowers repayment plans described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1). In designing such alternative repayment plans, the Secretary shall ensure that such plans do not exceed the cost to the Federal Government, as determined on the basis of the present value of future payments by such borrowers, of loans made using the plans available under paragraph (2).
          ‘‘(6) REPAYMENT AFTER DEFAULT .—The Secretary may require any borrower who has defaulted on a loan made under this part to—
               ‘‘(A) pay all reasonable collection costs associated with such loan; and
               ‘‘(B) repay the loan pursuant to a repayment plan described in subparagraph (A) or
          (B) of paragraph (2).
          ‘‘(7) APPLICABILITY PROVISION .—
               ‘‘(A) N GENERAL .—Except as provided in paragraph (5) and subparagraph (B), the repayment plans under subparagraphs (B), (C),
          (D), and (E) of paragraph (1) are not available for a borrower who received the borrower’s first disbursement of a Federal Direct Loan on or after July 1, 2015.
               ‘‘(B) EXCEPTION .—The repayment plans available to a borrower of a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a dependent student on or after July 1, 2015, shall be those described under subparagraphs (A), (B), and
          (C) of paragraph (1).’’; and
          (2) in subsection (m)—
               (A) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘The Secretary’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as provided in paragraph (5), the Secretary’’;
              (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ‘‘or (5)’’ after ‘‘paragraph (1)’’; and
              (C) by adding at the end the following:
          ‘‘(5) SIMPLIFIED INCOME-DRIVEN REPAYMENT .—With respect to an eligible Federal Direct Loan not in default made under this part on or after July 1, 2015, the Secretary shall cancel the balance of interest and principal due, in accordance with paragraph (2), on any such loan for a borrower who—
              ‘‘(A) has made 120 monthly payments on the eligible Federal Direct Loan under a simplified income-driven repayment plan under subsection (d)(2)(B);
              ‘‘(B) is employed in a public service job at the time of such forgiveness; and
              ‘‘(C) has been employed in a public service job during the period in which the borrower makes each of the 120 payments described in subparagraph (A).’’.
 SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.
     (a) IN GENERAL .—Paragraph (1) of section 108(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking ‘‘any student loan if’’ and all that follows and inserting ‘‘any student loan if—
               ‘‘(A) such discharge was pursuant to a provision of such loan under which all or part of the indebtedness of the individual would be discharged if the individual worked for a certain period of time in certain professions for any of a broad class of employers, or
               ‘‘(B) such discharge was pursuant to section 464(c)(1)(F) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (relating to the cancellation of loan liability).’’.
     (b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to discharges of loans after the date of enactment of this Act.
 SEC. 5. NOTIFICATION TO BORROWERS ABOUT REPAYMENT OPTIONS AND ALTERNATIVES TO DEFAULT. Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall require servicers of loans made, insured, or guaranteed under part B or D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1071 et seq. and 1087a et seq.) to—
          (1) notify borrowers, in writing, about all repayment options for which the borrower may qualify;
          (2) provide borrowers, in writing, information about alternative repayment plans, including all terms, conditions, and fees associated with such repayment plans in a format that permits the borrower to compare the current repayment plan with alternative repayment plans; and
           (3) offer to enroll such borrowers in alternative plans, if eligible.
