> 115THCONGRESS
>    1STSESSION S.ll
> To designate the checkpoint of the United States Border Patrol located
>    on United States Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, as the ‘‘Javier
>    Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint’’.
>     IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
>                    llllllllll
>  llllllllll introduced the following bill; which was read twice
>        and referred to the Committee on llllllllll
>                    A BILL
> To designate the checkpoint of the United States Border
>     Patrol located on United States Highway 77 North in
>     Sarita, Texas, as the ‘‘Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol
>     Checkpoint’’.
     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Javier Vega, Jr. Memorial Act of 2017’’.
 SEC. 2. FINDINGS. Congress finds the following:
          (1) A native of La Feria, Texas, Border Patrol Agent Javier Vega, Jr. served his country first a member of the United States Marines Corps and then proudly as a border patrol agent in the canine division with his dog, Goldie.
          (2) Agent Vega was assigned to the Kingsville, Texas Border Patrol Station as a canine handler and worked primarily at the Sarita Border Patrol Checkpoint.
          (3) On August 3, 2014, Agent Vega was on a fishing trip with his family near Raymondville, Texas, when 2 criminal aliens attempted to rob and attack them.
          (4) Agent Vega was shot and killed while attempting to subdue the assailants and protecting his family.
          (5) Agent Vega is survived by his wife, parents, 3 sons, brother, sisterinlaw, niece, and dog, Goldie.
 SEC. 3. DESIGNATION. The checkpoint of the United States Border Patrol located on United States Highway 77 North in Sarita, Texas, shall be known and designated as the ‘‘Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint’’.
 SEC. 4. REFERENCES. Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the checkpoint described in section 3 shall be deemed to be a reference to the ‘‘Javier Vega, Jr. Border Patrol Checkpoint’’.
